1. Pattern Matching for instanceof: 16
Pattern matching involves testing whether an object has a particular structure,
then extracting data from that object if there's a match.
You can already do this with Java; however,
pattern matching introduces new language enhancements
that enable you to conditionally extract data from objects with code that's more concise and robust.

More specifically, JDK 15 extends the instanceof operator: you can specify a binding variable;
if the result of the instanceof operator is true, then the object being tested is assigned to the binding variable.

2. Sealead Class:  15
To seal a class, add the sealed modifier to its declaration. Then, after any extends and implements clauses,
add the permits clause. This clause specifies the classes that may extend the sealed class.

Purpose:
Sealed class is used to stop a class to be inherited.
You cannot derive or extend any class from it.
Sealed method is implemented so that no other class can overthrow it
and implement its own method.
The main purpose of the sealed class is to withdraw the inheritance
attribute from the user so that they can’t attain a class from a sealed class.
Sealed classes are used best when you have a class with static members.

advantage:
Sealed classes work well with the following:
Java Reflection API
Java Records
Pattern Matching

Note:
Alternatively, you can define permitted subclasses in the same file as the sealed class.
If you do so, then you can omit the permits clause:

Constraints on Permitted Subclasses
Permitted subclasses have the following constraints:
All the permitted subclasses must belong to the same module or package as the sealed class
They must be accessible by the sealed class at compile time.
For example, to compile Shape.java, the compiler must be able to access all of the permitted classes of Shape: Circle.java, Square.java, and Rectangle.java. In addition, because Rectangle is a sealed class, the compiler also needs access to FilledRectangle.java.
They must directly extend the sealed class.
They must have exactly one of the following modifiers to describe how it continues the sealing initiated by its superclass:
final: Cannot be extended further
sealed: Can only be extended by its permitted subclasses
non-sealed: Can be extended by unknown subclasses; a sealed class cannot prevent its permitted subclasses from doing this
For example, the permitted subclasses of Shape demonstrate each of these three modifiers: Circle is final while Rectangle is sealed and Square is non-sealed.
They must be in the same module as the sealed class (if the sealed class is in a named module) or in the same package (if the sealed class is in the unnamed module, as in the Shape.java example).

3. Records: 14

Like enum, record is also a special class type in Java. It is mostly to be used in places
where a class is created only to act as plain data carrier.
The important difference between class and record is that a record aims to eliminate all
the boilerplate code needed to set and get the data from instance.
Records transfer this responsibility to java compiler which generates the constructor,
field getters, hashCode() and equals() as well toString() methods.
We can override any of default provided above methods in record definition to implement custom behavior.

A constructor accepting all fields.
The toString() method which prints the state/values of all fields in the record.
The equals() and hashCode() methods using an invokedynamic based mechanism.
The getter methods whose names are similar to field names i.e. id(), firstName(), lastName(), email() and age().
The class extends java.lang.Record, which is the base class for all records. It means a record cannot extend other classes.
The class is marked final, which means we cannot create a subclass of it.
It does not have any setter method which means a record instance is designed to be immutable.

When we should use records
Records are ideal candidate when modeling things like domain model classes
(potentially to be persisted via ORM), or data transfer objects (DTOs).
The records are useful when storing data temporarily.
As example can be during JSON deserialization.
Generally during deserialization, we do not expect the program to mutate data read from JSON. We just read the data and pass it to data processor or validator.
Also, records are not replacement for mutable Java beans because a record, by design, is immutable.
Use records when a class is intended to hold the data for some time and we want to avoid writing lots of boilerplate code.
We can use records in variety of other situations e.g. hold multiple return values from a method, stream joins, compound keys and in data-structure such as tree nodes.

Cannot subclass Record explicitly
Though all records extend java.lang.Record class,
still we cannot create a subclass of java.lang.Record explicitly. The compiler will not pass through.
1. we can perform Serialization
2. Additional fields and methods.
3. we can add annotation to the components of a record, which are applicable to them.
  For example, we can apply @Transient annotation to the id field.

Added annotation
public record EmployeeRecord(
    @Transient Long id,
    String firstName,
    String lastName,
    String email,
    int age)
{
  //
}

Rahul chauhan Noida

